You might have heard of SVG before.
We're not gonna go too, too in depth what
it stands for Scalable Vector Graphics.
So it's an XML based markup language
that describes two dimensional graphics.
It's also a text based or
open web standard scribing images that
can be rendered cleanly at any size.
Works really well with other
web standards like CSS.
So unlike JPEG or PNG, SVG can be rendered
at any size without loss of quality.
So it's really great, and we'll see
that with some of the icons, right?
We can also change some of the properties
of SVG, like the color of it,
which is super useful, so you don't
have to load different types of assets.
So you might have heard of inline SVG.
There are a couple benefits to
using inline SVG, for reference,
this is what it looks like.
You're literally defining the element
inline, so you're seeing the path and
the strokes, and things like that,
that's what that looks like.
So there are fewer HTTP requests.
You're not requesting a file, it's there.
And we can use fill property and change
the color of our strokes and our paths and
things like that.
Unfortunately, it is a little bit verbose,
like this isn't the nice thing to look at,
but it does have some benefits.
The alternative is you have
a link to an SVG file,
which is absolutely
something that you can do.
But again, it's gonna require a request.
With images, we're gonna be
working with them in the code.
It's a little bit easier to explain like,
in real time, so
I didn't put any slides in there.
We're just gonna jump into it and
explain things as we go.
Okay, homepage is done.
Here's our speaker page,
white background, orange text.
Right now, we have an orange
background and white text.
So, let's start at the top, our header
does not have the same styles as our
homepage, right,
we need to apply apply those.
Does anyone know why they're not
being applied at the moment if we
open our speakers page?
How come there are styles aren't being
applied there in the base file here?
So why are they not applied?
That's because we don't have any class
names on our elements here, right?
I'm gonna copy and paste for
time sake here, but
here in our index file we have to find
all these like them class names, right?
I'm gonna copy and paste over our
nav here, to our speakers file.
Okay, so when we do that, look at that.
Magically, it's beautiful again.
So let's address the color
palette change here.
So while the homepage has an orange
background with white text,
speakers page has a white
background with orange text.
So in order to alleviate this, I'm gonna
create a body class on both a class for
the body elements on both Home and
Speakers.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So in our index file, we'll start there,
set a class on the body.
So we'll call it body, and this one will
have a modifier, we'll call it primary.
It's our primary color palette.
Speakers will be very similar, but
it'll be secondary, body, body, secondary.
So in our base file here,
remember we defined all of these styles on
the body element here, let's change that.
So we still wanna keep this font family,
I'm gonna leave that there.
Let's just pull out these.
So we still wanna have those,
stay body, Primary.
Well, we can set those
values back on there,
right, it's working like expected.
I'm gonna copy and paste this for
the secondary as well, secondary.
Text on primary, again, I could create new
variables for this, but at this point,
it's kind of a matter of opinion how
many variables you wanna create.
Color, primary, like that.
Cool, so there we go.
However, something is
wrong with our header.
Anyone know what's wrong with our header?
We're missing our shopping cart,
it's gone away.
Well, at least it looks like it has.
It's actually still there, right?
That's because we are importing
this SVG using the image tag.
And so, SVGs rendered as images,
they're not gonna inherit color.
So instead,
let's change these to inline SVGs.
I'm going to go into our File Explorer,
let's say icons, shopping.cart.
Let's copy all of this SVG
code as ugly as it is.
I'm going to replace the image of
this icon with the inline svg, right?
It's angry, but it will work.
Let me see here.
So as soon as I save this and
go back to the homepage, it still renders.
So that works great.
It renders properly in the homepage.
How do we make this orange
on our speakers page?
Let's inspect this again.
It would help if I replaced
all the speakers page two.
Let me do that, okay?
So now, It's there, it's an inline SVG,
but it's still not visible.
There are a couple of different
properties that we can use on this
SVG to change the styling.
So if I highlight this SVG,
let's just say for fun, give it a stroke.
Let's change the stroke color to orange.
Look at that, we see our icon.
It looks like just an outline,
a very thin outline, right?
So we're changing the stroke
color of this SVG.
Instead, there's something called fill.
Now, it's not gonna work around the SVG,
in fact,
we have to go in and find the path.
We can say fill orange, right?
So by finding this path element,
we can set the color of it right there.
So we don't need a separate file,
we can just change this in our CSS code.
So let's do that,
I'm going to give this a class.
This is on my Speakers page class =,
we'll call you shopping-cart-icon.
We'll give this a primary.
All right, this one will be secondary,
no, it's a primary color.
So I'm giving it a primary name here.
So shopping-cart icon primary.
This is just for the Speaker's page.
So let's go ahead into our
speaker CSS file, target this.
Now, we tried to set the fill
on the SVG element itself,
notice it didn't work, right?
We need to target this path.
So in order to do that, we can see here
inside SVG, we've got g, we've got path.
So that's how we're gonna target that.
We're gonna say, target the g and
then target path.
And then we can go ahead and
set the fill on there.
And we will use our color-primer.
Color-primary, there we go.
So that's working.
So now on our home page, it's white,
on our speakers page, it's orange, and
we only have one file, so that's great.
Or we don't even need
the file because it's inline.
The content is right up against
the viewport yet again, right?
So it doesn't have the same
padding around it.
Our index page remember we set
a class on that main content area, and
that's where we defined padding.
Where do you go?
Main, I moved into home, didn't I?
Yeah, here we go, main.
We set a padding on
the homepage of 150 pixels.
We set that on our main element, right?
We need to do the same thing for
our speakers page,
so, the content sign up
against the viewport.
So let's go ahead and
add a class to our main content area.
Class is main.
Now, remember I said, we've defined
that in the index file, right?
So I'm gonna pull this out,
it's gonna be common and
shared across both of our pages.
I'm gonna plop it into the base file.
It's being imported into both.
So yeah, we see it now, but of course,
there's some overflow issues
with some of these large images.
We're gonna ignore that, but
at least the padding is there now.
And real quick, back in our index file,
there were two other selectors here that
styled the main element, right, but these
were really specific to the home page.
So, I could keep them listed as like
main heading and main subheading,
but semantically,
it's a little bit confusing because
this is not being applied to both pages.
So, inside of our index.html file again,
let's do something like this.
We've got our classes on our body here.
We had body primary and index,
and body secondary and speakers.
Let's add a third class here,
we'll call this one home.
We'll do the same here, but
we'll call this one speakers, all right?
So now, back inside of our index
file set of just mean heading,
we can be extra clear that this is
living inside of the home page,
or the home element, or
element containing the class of home.
So it should be pretty clear
looking at this like, okay,
this is not for every main heading, it's
the main headings inside of the homepage.
Just to check that I
haven't broken anything.
Yeah, it's still working.
We'll do the same thing here
with the speaker's page, right,
cuz we do have a title in our speakers
page here, right, it's an h1.
So we'll give this a class main_title,
right?
All right, so
we're still using that main, but
we wanna preface it now
by that speaker's class.
We just added on our body
speakers main_title, like that.
We need a larger font size here,
98 pixels for that heading.
All right, so there we go.
That was a little more like our design,
let's go back over here.